README.md, before:

![image-1313240240](https://github.com/Scrut1ny/GrapheneOS-Guide/assets/53458032/fd537eec-0144-47aa-9e72-4bd65eb3964c)

##### I collaborated with Naomi Brockwell [NBTV](https://www.youtube.com/@NaomiBrockwellTV) to craft a YouTube video accompanying this guide. The process involved significant dedication and effort, resulting in the creation of [this video](https://youtu.be/wg00QkcpOOM). Whether you stumbled upon it from the YouTube video, discovered it by chance, or were referred by a friend, your feedback is highly valued. Please don't hesitate to propose any additions or improvements to this guide. Whether it's links, configurations, apps, or any other suggestions, I welcome your input. Your recommendations will be thoroughly reviewed, and I'll consider their integration into this guide.




## 💵 Purchasing

<details>
<summary>Click to expand...</summary>

- 📱 Mobile Phone
  - Purchase a new `Google Pixel` with `cash` from a local store (including the [Google Store](https://store.google.com/magazine/locations)) and avoid Verizon, as they lock the OEM.
    - *Ensure the transaction remains anonymous to avoid linking the phone's IMEI to your identity.*

- 📶 Mobile Carrier
  - Buy a pre-paid [Mint Mobile](https://www.mintmobile.com/) (T-Mobile) SIM card with `cash` from a local store.
    - Wire it up to a [privacy.com](https://privacy.com/) card.
      - For $15/month*, it provides unlimited* 4G/5G domestic data with relatively little attributable information on the account (e.g., no name, address, SSN, etc.)
  - [Calyx hotspot](https://calyxinstitute.org/membership/internet) for unlimited, unthrottled, anonymous connectivity. 

- 📳 Configuring Mobile Carrier
  - Use a free public Wi-Fi network far from your home to configure your recently acquired mobile carrier.
- 🌐 Utilizing Port 53 (*DNS*) with a VPN on Public Wi-Fi
  - Connect to a VPN service, configuring it to use port 53. This disguises VPN traffic as DNS queries, bypassing login requirements on public WiFi with captive portal networks, ensuring unrestricted internet access while preserving privacy and security.

- 📲 Mobile Accessories (optional)
  - Protective Case/Cover
      - [Google Pixel](https://www.amazon.com/stores/page/1AEDD91F-AFDC-49AA-A7F4-2BF2A6AEBD57/search?terms=Google%20Pixel)
  - Privacy Screen Protector
      - [Google Pixel](https://www.amazon.com/stores/page/EE20BD00-A914-460E-B3CC-12A13BB945E2)

</details>




## 🔓 Unlocking the OEM

<details>
<summary>Click to expand...</summary>

1. Remove physical SIM card
2. Factory reset (Settings > System > Reset options > `Erase all data (factory reset)` ✅
3. Setup Wi-Fi Connection (Settings > Network & internet > Internet)
4. Settings > System > Dev > `Allow OEM unlocking` ✅

</details>




## ⬇️ Install Google USB Driver

<details>
<summary>Click to expand...</summary>

1. Download: [Link](https://dl.google.com/android/repository/usb_driver_r13-windows.zip)
2. Unzip "usb_driver_r13-windows.zip"
3. `WIN + R` enter: `devmgmt.msc`
4. Portable Devices > Google Pixel
5. Right click device > `Properties` > `Driver` > `Update Driver` > `Browse my computer for drivers` > `Browse` > Select *unzipped* "usb_driver_r13-windows" file once located.

</details>




## ⬇️ Installation

<details>
<summary>Click to expand...</summary>

### Official Site > [https://grapheneos.org](https://grapheneos.org)
- [Web Install Guide](https://grapheneos.org/install/web)
- [CLI Install Guide](https://grapheneos.org/install/cli)

### System is bricked, boot looping, corrupted, or showing critical errors
- [Fix Guide](https://forum.xda-developers.com/t/guide-flashing-a-factory-image-with-fastboot-return-to-stock.1907796/)

</details>




## ⚙️ Settings

<details>
<summary>Click to expand...</summary>

#### Network & internet
* Settings > Network & internet > Internet > Carrier Settings ⚙️ > Preferred network type > `LTE only` ✅ (*if you don't have 5G*)
* Settings > Network & internet > Internet > Carrier Settings ⚙️ > `Allow 2G` ❌
    * *Setting may not exist on your phone*
* Settings > Network & internet > Internet > *Select your Wi-Fi* ⚙️ > *select pen icon* > Advanced options > Privacy > `Use per-connection randomized MAC (default)` ✅
* Settings > Network & internet > Private DNS > Private DNS provider hostname: `dns.quad9.net` ✅
    * *Only enable if you're **NOT** using a custom DNS configuation with your VPN, or else the private DNS will override the VPNs DNS.*
* Settings > Network & internet > Internet connectivity checks > `Disabled` ❌
    * *Make sure to enable again for captive portals used via public Wi-Fi!*

#### Apps
- Settings > Apps > Default apps (*Set your favorite default apps here*) ✅

#### Battery
- Settings > Battery > `Battery Percentage` ✅

#### Sound & vibration
- Settings > Sound & vibration > `Vibration & haptics` ❌
- Settings > Sound & vibration > `Dial pad tones` ❌
- Settings > Sound & vibration > `Screen locking sound` ❌
- Settings > Sound & vibration > `Charging sounds and vibration` ❌
- Settings > Sound & vibration > `Touch sounds` ❌
- Settings > Sound & vibration > `Always show icon when in vibrate mode` ❌

#### Display
- Settings > Display > `Adaptive Brightness` ✅
- Settings > Display > `Auto-rotate screen` ✅
- Settings > Display > Lock Screen > Privacy > `Show sensitive content only when unlocked` ✅
- Settings > Display > Lock Screen > `Wake screen for notifications` ❌
- Settings > Display > Screen timeout > `1 minute` ✅
- Settings > Display > `Dark Theme` ✅
- Settings > Display > `Increase touch sensitivity` ✅ (If you have screen protector)

#### Security
- Settings > Security > Auto reboot > `12 Hours` ✅
- Settings > Security > `Scramble PIN input layout` ✅

#### Privacy
- Settings > Privacy > Permission manager > Customize Everything! ✅
  - Use [exodus-privacy](https://reports.exodus-privacy.eu.org/) to assess if an app has excessive trackers or questionable permissions.

#### System
- Settings > System > Language & Input > on screen keyboard > GraphineOS Keyboard > Appearance & Layouts > Theme > `Material Dark` ✅

</details>




## 🛍️ Apps

<details>
<summary>Click to expand...</summary>

### FOSS Essential Apps
- Web Browser
  - [Mull](https://f-droid.org/packages/us.spotco.fennec_dos/) - Privacy oriented web browser (FF Based)
    - Add-ons
      - [uBlock Origin](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/ublock-origin/)
      - [Tampermonkey](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/tampermonkey/)
        - User Scripts (JS)
          - [Greasy Fork](https://greasyfork.org/)
            - [Simple YouTube Age Restriction Bypass](https://greasyfork.org/scripts/423851-simple-youtube-age-restriction-bypass)
- YouTube Alt
  - [LibreTube](https://github.com/libre-tube/LibreTube/releases/latest) - An alternative frontend for YouTube, for Android.
  - [Clipious](https://github.com/lamarios/clipious/releases/latest) - Invidious client for android 
  - [NewPipe](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases/latest) - A libre lightweight streaming front-end for Android.
- Movie/Show Streaming Alt
  - [CloudStream](https://github.com/recloudstream/cloudstream/releases/latest) - Android app for streaming and downloading media.
    - [repos](https://rentry.org/cs3-repos#cloudstream-3-repositories)
- Music
  - [RiMusic](https://github.com/fast4x/RiMusic/releases/latest) - A multilingual Android application for streaming music from YouTube Music. 
  - [Auxio](https://github.com/OxygenCobalt/Auxio/releases/latest) - A simple, rational music player for Android
  - [InnerTune](https://github.com/z-huang/InnerTune/releases/latest) - A Material 3 YouTube Music client for Android
- Photo/Video Gallery
  - [Aves](https://github.com/deckerst/aves/releases/latest) - Aves is a gallery and metadata explorer app, built for Android with Flutter.
  - [Fossify Gallery](https://github.com/FossifyOrg/Gallery/releases/latest) - A premium app for managing and editing your photos, videos, GIFs without ads
- Notes
  - [Fossify Notes](https://github.com/FossifyOrg/Notes/releases/latest) - A simple textfield for adding quick notes without ads.
- Secure Messaging
  - [Signal](https://signal.org/android/apk/) - A private messenger for Android.
    - [Molly](https://github.com/mollyim/mollyim-android/releases/latest) - Enhanced and security-focused fork of Signal. 
  - [SimpleX](https://github.com/simplex-chat/simplex-chat/releases/latest) - The first messaging network operating without user identifiers of any kind - 100% private by design!
- Email Service
  - [Proton Mail](https://github.com/ProtonMail/proton-mail-android/releases/latest)
  - [Tuta](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/de.tutao.tutanota/)
- Navigation
  - [OsmAnd](https://github.com/osmandapp/OsmAnd/releases/latest) - Global Mobile Map Viewing & Navigation for Offline and Online OSM Maps
- Weather
  - [Rain](https://github.com/DarkMooNight/Rain/releases/latest) - Weather app.
- Updates
  - [Obtainium](https://github.com/ImranR98/Obtainium/releases/latest) - Get Android App Updates Directly From the Source. 

### App Stores
- [F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/) - The app store that respects freedom and privacy
- [Accrescent](https://github.com/accrescent/accrescent/releases/latest) - A novel Android app store focused on security, privacy, and usability
- [Aurora Store](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.aurora.store/) - An open-source alternative to Google Play Store with privacy and modern design

### F-Droid Apps
- Web Browser
  - [Mull](https://f-droid.org/packages/us.spotco.fennec_dos/) - Privacy oriented web browser (FF Based)
  - [Cromite](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/releases/latest) - Cromite a Bromite fork with ad blocking and privacy enhancements; take back your browser! 
- Navigation
  - [Organic Maps](https://f-droid.org/packages/app.organicmaps/) - Open-source, community-driven maps for travelers, tourists, cyclists & hikers
  - [OsmAnd~](https://f-droid.org/packages/net.osmand.plus/) - Global Mobile Map Viewing & Navigation for Offline and Online OSM Maps
- Weather
  - [Rain](https://github.com/DarkMooNight/Rain/releases/latest) - Weather app.
  - [Breezy Weather](https://github.com/breezy-weather/breezy-weather/releases/latest) - A Material Design Weather Application
- Onlne Video, Music, Streaming, Podcasts, etc
  - [NewPipe](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.schabi.newpipe/) - Lightweight YouTube frontend
  - [LibreTube](https://github.com/libre-tube/LibreTube/releases/latest) - An alternative frontend for YouTube, for Android.
  - [Clipious](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.github.lamarios.clipious/) - Invidious client for android
  - [ViMusic](https://f-droid.org/packages/it.vfsfitvnm.vimusic/) - Seamlessly stream music from YouTube Music
  - [InnerTune](https://github.com/z-huang/InnerTune/releases/latest) - A Material 3 YouTube Music client for Android
  - [Spotube](https://github.com/KRTirtho/spotube/releases/latest) - 🎧 Open source Spotify client that doesn't require Premium nor uses Electron! Available for both desktop & mobile!
  - [Transistor](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.y20k.transistor/) - Transistor is an app for listening to radio stations over the internet.
  - [AntennaPod](https://f-droid.org/packages/de.danoeh.antennapod/) - Easy-to-use, flexible and open-source podcast manager and player
  - [Podverse](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.podverse.fdroid/) - Podcast app with clips, video, livestreams, playlists, profiles, and cross-platform
- Social Media
  - [Squawker](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/org.ca.squawker/) - An open-source Twitter/X client
  - [Infinity for Reddit](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/ml.docilealligator.infinityforreddit/) - A beautiful, feature-rich Reddit client.
  - [Mastodon](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.joinmastodon.android/) - Decentralized social network
  - [Shitter](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/org.nuclearfog.twidda/) - A lightweight Mastodon client focused on privacy and low data consumption
- Offline Media
  - [VLC Media Player](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.videolan.vlc/) - The best video and music player. Fast and “just works”, plays any file
  - [Video Transcoder](https://f-droid.org/packages/protect.videoeditor/) - Video transcoding between common formats
  - [Standard Notes](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.standardnotes/) - An end-to-end encrypted note-taking app for digitalists and professionals
  - [SimpleTextEditor](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.maxistar.textpad/) - Simple Text Editor
- Messenger (Private, Secure, etc)
  - [Briar](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.briarproject.briar.android/) - Secure Messaging, Anywhere
  - [Jami](https://f-droid.org/packages/cx.ring/) - Audio & Video Calls / Chat Take Control of your Communication!
  - [SimpleX](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/chat.simplex.app/) - The first messaging network operating without user identifiers of any kind - 100% private by design!
- Email Service
  - [Proton Mail](https://github.com/ProtonMail/android-mail/releases/latest)
  - [Tuta](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/de.tutao.tutanota/)
- VPNs
  - [Mullvad VPN](https://f-droid.org/packages/net.mullvad.mullvadvpn/) - Protect your online privacy with a fast, trustworthy, and easy-to-use VPN.
  - [IVPN](https://f-droid.org/packages/net.ivpn.client/) - Privacy focused VPN service with WireGuard
  - [Calyx VPN](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.calyxinstitute.vpn/) - Free VPN Service offered by The Calyx Institute
  - [Proton VPN](https://f-droid.org/packages/ch.protonvpn.android/) - Free Swiss VPN with advanced security and privacy features.
- App Control & Container/Isolator
  - [NetGuard](https://f-droid.org/packages/eu.faircode.netguard/) - A simple way to block access to the internet per application
  - [Insular](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.oasisfeng.island.fdroid/) - Isolate your Big Brother apps
- Misc. Apps
  - [PCAPdroid](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.emanuelef.remote_capture/) - No-root network monitor and traffic dump tool for Android devices
  - [Seal](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/com.junkfood.seal/) - 🦭 Video/audio downloader for Android (YT-DLP), designed with Material You 
  - [PrivacyBlur](https://f-droid.org/packages/de.mathema.privacyblur/) - Blur or pixelate faces or sensitive areas in pictures
  - [KeePassDX](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.kunzisoft.keepass.libre/) - Secure and open source password manager compatible with KeePass files.
    - [Key Driver](https://gitlab.com/kunzisoft/android-hardware-key-driver/-/releases) - Unlock KeePassXC databases with [YubiKeys](https://keepassxc.org/docs/#faq-yubikey-2fa)
  - [Lemuroid](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.swordfish.lemuroid/) - All in one emulator on Android
  - [Lawnchair](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/ch.deletescape.lawnchair.plah/) - Pixel Launcher features plus customizability
  - [Public IP](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/net.guildem.publicip/) - App and Widget allowing user to find its current public IP address
  - [Catima](https://f-droid.org/packages/me.hackerchick.catima/) - Catima, a Loyalty Card & Ticket Manager for Android
  - [Feeder](https://github.com/spacecowboy/Feeder) - Android RSS reader app

### Aurora Store Apps
- Magic Earth
  - [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.generalmagic.magicearth)
  - Direct Download: [https://www.magicearth.com/apk/](https://www.magicearth.com/apk/) - Password: `7h6Q7\9AsF:a7"Ja`
- Tor Browser
  - [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.torproject.torbrowser)

</details>




## Personal Layout Design

<details>
<summary>Click to expand...</summary>

## Personal Current Phone Layout
![image](https://github.com/Scrut1ny/GrapheneOS-Guide/assets/53458032/48b8fe77-1c37-4e1c-afb9-6be1c2d23787)

- If you would like your system to look like mine, please check out these apps:
  - [unlauncher](https://github.com/jkuester/unlauncher/releases/latest) - Android minimalistic launcher
    - [F-Droid Link](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.jkuester.unlauncher/)
  - [KISS](https://github.com/Neamar/KISS/releases/latest) - Lightning fast, open-source, < 250kb Android launcher
  - My KISS Config
  ```
  {"__v":183,"freeze-history":true,"history-hide":true,"first-run-favorites":false,"selected-search-provider-names":["DuckDuckGo"],"require-layout-update":false,"gesture-up":"display-apps","favorite-apps-list":"app:\/\/us.spotco.fennec_dos\/us.spotco.fennec_dos.App;app:\/\/com.zionhuang.music\/com.zionhuang.music.MainActivity;app:\/\/org.thoughtcrime.securesms\/org.thoughtcrime.securesms.RoutingActivity;app:\/\/com.android.dialer\/com.android.dialer.main.impl.MainActivity;app:\/\/com.android.settings\/com.android.settings.Settings;","enable-app-history":false,"available-search-providers":["DuckDuckGo|https:\/\/start.duckduckgo.com\/?q=%s"],"enable-search":false,"large-search-bar":true,"transparent-search":true,"subicon-visible":false,"pref-toggle-tags-list":["call","clock","message","people","messaging"],"excluded-apps":["fr.neamar.kiss\/fr.neamar.kiss.MainActivity"],"default-search-provider":"DuckDuckGo","theme":"transparent-dark","pref-hide-circle":true,"first-run-shortcuts":false,"exclude-favorites-history":false,"deleting-search-providers-names":["Google","Google Maps","Google Play Store","YouTube","Ecosia","Bing"],"force-adaptive":false,"icons-pack":"com.donnnno.arcticons","pref-hide-search-bar-hint":true,"__tags":{"app:\/\/com.android.dialer\/com.android.dialer.main.impl.MainActivity":"dial call phone","app:\/\/com.android.contacts\/com.android.contacts.activities.PeopleActivity":"contacts people relations","app:\/\/org.chromium.chrome\/com.google.android.apps.chrome.Main":"internet web browser","app:\/\/com.android.deskclock\/com.android.deskclock.DeskClock":"clock alarm timer stopwatch","app:\/\/us.spotco.fennec_dos\/org.mozilla.fenix.IntentReceiverActivity":"internet web browser","app:\/\/com.android.deskclock\/com.android.deskclock.HandleApiCalls":"clock alarm timer stopwatch","app:\/\/com.android.messaging\/com.android.messaging.ui.conversationlist.ConversationListActivity":"text message compose sms mms messaging"}}
  ```

- Arcticons
  - [Arcticons Dark](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.donnnno.arcticons/) - A monotone line-based icon pack
  - [Arcticons Light](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.donnnno.arcticons.light/) - A monotone line-based icon pack
  - [Arcticons You](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.donnnno.arcticons.you/) - A Material You line-based icon pack

</details>




## Other Awesome Guides
- [https://alternativeto.net/list/35462/grapheneos-appverse/](https://alternativeto.net/list/35462/grapheneos-appverse/)
- [https://www.devilreef.net/securing-a-personal-android-phone/](https://www.devilreef.net/securing-a-personal-android-phone/)
- [https://redandblack.io/blog/2020/how-to-set-up-grapheneos/](https://redandblack.io/blog/2020/how-to-set-up-grapheneos/)
- [https://craignuzzo.tech/articles/graphene](https://craignuzzo.tech/articles/graphene)

Commit message:

Add Tusky, Fedilab,& PixelDroid as Fediverse apps
* Add 3 more Fediverse apps under the Social Media section

README.md, after:

![image-1313240240](https://github.com/Scrut1ny/GrapheneOS-Guide/assets/53458032/fd537eec-0144-47aa-9e72-4bd65eb3964c)

##### I collaborated with Naomi Brockwell [NBTV](https://www.youtube.com/@NaomiBrockwellTV) to craft a YouTube video accompanying this guide. The process involved significant dedication and effort, resulting in the creation of [this video](https://youtu.be/wg00QkcpOOM). Whether you stumbled upon it from the YouTube video, discovered it by chance, or were referred by a friend, your feedback is highly valued. Please don't hesitate to propose any additions or improvements to this guide. Whether it's links, configurations, apps, or any other suggestions, I welcome your input. Your recommendations will be thoroughly reviewed, and I'll consider their integration into this guide.




## 💵 Purchasing

<details>
<summary>Click to expand...</summary>

- 📱 Mobile Phone
  - Purchase a new `Google Pixel` with `cash` from a local store (including the [Google Store](https://store.google.com/magazine/locations)) and avoid Verizon, as they lock the OEM.
    - *Ensure the transaction remains anonymous to avoid linking the phone's IMEI to your identity.*

- 📶 Mobile Carrier
  - Buy a pre-paid [Mint Mobile](https://www.mintmobile.com/) (T-Mobile) SIM card with `cash` from a local store.
    - Wire it up to a [privacy.com](https://privacy.com/) card.
      - For $15/month*, it provides unlimited* 4G/5G domestic data with relatively little attributable information on the account (e.g., no name, address, SSN, etc.)
  - [Calyx hotspot](https://calyxinstitute.org/membership/internet) for unlimited, unthrottled, anonymous connectivity. 

- 📳 Configuring Mobile Carrier
  - Use a free public Wi-Fi network far from your home to configure your recently acquired mobile carrier.
- 🌐 Utilizing Port 53 (*DNS*) with a VPN on Public Wi-Fi
  - Connect to a VPN service, configuring it to use port 53. This disguises VPN traffic as DNS queries, bypassing login requirements on public WiFi with captive portal networks, ensuring unrestricted internet access while preserving privacy and security.

- 📲 Mobile Accessories (optional)
  - Protective Case/Cover
      - [Google Pixel](https://www.amazon.com/stores/page/1AEDD91F-AFDC-49AA-A7F4-2BF2A6AEBD57/search?terms=Google%20Pixel)
  - Privacy Screen Protector
      - [Google Pixel](https://www.amazon.com/stores/page/EE20BD00-A914-460E-B3CC-12A13BB945E2)

</details>




## 🔓 Unlocking the OEM

<details>
<summary>Click to expand...</summary>

1. Remove physical SIM card
2. Factory reset (Settings > System > Reset options > `Erase all data (factory reset)` ✅
3. Setup Wi-Fi Connection (Settings > Network & internet > Internet)
4. Settings > System > Dev > `Allow OEM unlocking` ✅

</details>




## ⬇️ Install Google USB Driver

<details>
<summary>Click to expand...</summary>

1. Download: [Link](https://dl.google.com/android/repository/usb_driver_r13-windows.zip)
2. Unzip "usb_driver_r13-windows.zip"
3. `WIN + R` enter: `devmgmt.msc`
4. Portable Devices > Google Pixel
5. Right click device > `Properties` > `Driver` > `Update Driver` > `Browse my computer for drivers` > `Browse` > Select *unzipped* "usb_driver_r13-windows" file once located.

</details>




## ⬇️ Installation

<details>
<summary>Click to expand...</summary>

### Official Site > [https://grapheneos.org](https://grapheneos.org)
- [Web Install Guide](https://grapheneos.org/install/web)
- [CLI Install Guide](https://grapheneos.org/install/cli)

### System is bricked, boot looping, corrupted, or showing critical errors
- [Fix Guide](https://forum.xda-developers.com/t/guide-flashing-a-factory-image-with-fastboot-return-to-stock.1907796/)

</details>




## ⚙️ Settings

<details>
<summary>Click to expand...</summary>

#### Network & internet
* Settings > Network & internet > Internet > Carrier Settings ⚙️ > Preferred network type > `LTE only` ✅ (*if you don't have 5G*)
* Settings > Network & internet > Internet > Carrier Settings ⚙️ > `Allow 2G` ❌
    * *Setting may not exist on your phone*
* Settings > Network & internet > Internet > *Select your Wi-Fi* ⚙️ > *select pen icon* > Advanced options > Privacy > `Use per-connection randomized MAC (default)` ✅
* Settings > Network & internet > Private DNS > Private DNS provider hostname: `dns.quad9.net` ✅
    * *Only enable if you're **NOT** using a custom DNS configuation with your VPN, or else the private DNS will override the VPNs DNS.*
* Settings > Network & internet > Internet connectivity checks > `Disabled` ❌
    * *Make sure to enable again for captive portals used via public Wi-Fi!*

#### Apps
- Settings > Apps > Default apps (*Set your favorite default apps here*) ✅

#### Battery
- Settings > Battery > `Battery Percentage` ✅

#### Sound & vibration
- Settings > Sound & vibration > `Vibration & haptics` ❌
- Settings > Sound & vibration > `Dial pad tones` ❌
- Settings > Sound & vibration > `Screen locking sound` ❌
- Settings > Sound & vibration > `Charging sounds and vibration` ❌
- Settings > Sound & vibration > `Touch sounds` ❌
- Settings > Sound & vibration > `Always show icon when in vibrate mode` ❌

#### Display
- Settings > Display > `Adaptive Brightness` ✅
- Settings > Display > `Auto-rotate screen` ✅
- Settings > Display > Lock Screen > Privacy > `Show sensitive content only when unlocked` ✅
- Settings > Display > Lock Screen > `Wake screen for notifications` ❌
- Settings > Display > Screen timeout > `1 minute` ✅
- Settings > Display > `Dark Theme` ✅
- Settings > Display > `Increase touch sensitivity` ✅ (If you have screen protector)

#### Security
- Settings > Security > Auto reboot > `12 Hours` ✅
- Settings > Security > `Scramble PIN input layout` ✅

#### Privacy
- Settings > Privacy > Permission manager > Customize Everything! ✅
  - Use [exodus-privacy](https://reports.exodus-privacy.eu.org/) to assess if an app has excessive trackers or questionable permissions.

#### System
- Settings > System > Language & Input > on screen keyboard > GraphineOS Keyboard > Appearance & Layouts > Theme > `Material Dark` ✅

</details>




## 🛍️ Apps

<details>
<summary>Click to expand...</summary>

### FOSS Essential Apps
- Web Browser
  - [Mull](https://f-droid.org/packages/us.spotco.fennec_dos/) - Privacy oriented web browser (FF Based)
    - Add-ons
      - [uBlock Origin](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/ublock-origin/)
      - [Tampermonkey](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/tampermonkey/)
        - User Scripts (JS)
          - [Greasy Fork](https://greasyfork.org/)
            - [Simple YouTube Age Restriction Bypass](https://greasyfork.org/scripts/423851-simple-youtube-age-restriction-bypass)
- YouTube Alt
  - [LibreTube](https://github.com/libre-tube/LibreTube/releases/latest) - An alternative frontend for YouTube, for Android.
  - [Clipious](https://github.com/lamarios/clipious/releases/latest) - Invidious client for android 
  - [NewPipe](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases/latest) - A libre lightweight streaming front-end for Android.
- Movie/Show Streaming Alt
  - [CloudStream](https://github.com/recloudstream/cloudstream/releases/latest) - Android app for streaming and downloading media.
    - [repos](https://rentry.org/cs3-repos#cloudstream-3-repositories)
- Music
  - [RiMusic](https://github.com/fast4x/RiMusic/releases/latest) - A multilingual Android application for streaming music from YouTube Music. 
  - [Auxio](https://github.com/OxygenCobalt/Auxio/releases/latest) - A simple, rational music player for Android
  - [InnerTune](https://github.com/z-huang/InnerTune/releases/latest) - A Material 3 YouTube Music client for Android
- Photo/Video Gallery
  - [Aves](https://github.com/deckerst/aves/releases/latest) - Aves is a gallery and metadata explorer app, built for Android with Flutter.
  - [Fossify Gallery](https://github.com/FossifyOrg/Gallery/releases/latest) - A premium app for managing and editing your photos, videos, GIFs without ads
- Notes
  - [Fossify Notes](https://github.com/FossifyOrg/Notes/releases/latest) - A simple textfield for adding quick notes without ads.
- Secure Messaging
  - [Signal](https://signal.org/android/apk/) - A private messenger for Android.
    - [Molly](https://github.com/mollyim/mollyim-android/releases/latest) - Enhanced and security-focused fork of Signal. 
  - [SimpleX](https://github.com/simplex-chat/simplex-chat/releases/latest) - The first messaging network operating without user identifiers of any kind - 100% private by design!
- Email Service
  - [Proton Mail](https://github.com/ProtonMail/proton-mail-android/releases/latest)
  - [Tuta](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/de.tutao.tutanota/)
- Navigation
  - [OsmAnd](https://github.com/osmandapp/OsmAnd/releases/latest) - Global Mobile Map Viewing & Navigation for Offline and Online OSM Maps
- Weather
  - [Rain](https://github.com/DarkMooNight/Rain/releases/latest) - Weather app.
- Updates
  - [Obtainium](https://github.com/ImranR98/Obtainium/releases/latest) - Get Android App Updates Directly From the Source. 

### App Stores
- [F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/) - The app store that respects freedom and privacy
- [Accrescent](https://github.com/accrescent/accrescent/releases/latest) - A novel Android app store focused on security, privacy, and usability
- [Aurora Store](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.aurora.store/) - An open-source alternative to Google Play Store with privacy and modern design

### F-Droid Apps
- Web Browser
  - [Mull](https://f-droid.org/packages/us.spotco.fennec_dos/) - Privacy oriented web browser (FF Based)
  - [Cromite](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/releases/latest) - Cromite a Bromite fork with ad blocking and privacy enhancements; take back your browser! 
- Navigation
  - [Organic Maps](https://f-droid.org/packages/app.organicmaps/) - Open-source, community-driven maps for travelers, tourists, cyclists & hikers
  - [OsmAnd~](https://f-droid.org/packages/net.osmand.plus/) - Global Mobile Map Viewing & Navigation for Offline and Online OSM Maps
- Weather
  - [Rain](https://github.com/DarkMooNight/Rain/releases/latest) - Weather app.
  - [Breezy Weather](https://github.com/breezy-weather/breezy-weather/releases/latest) - A Material Design Weather Application
- Onlne Video, Music, Streaming, Podcasts, etc
  - [NewPipe](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.schabi.newpipe/) - Lightweight YouTube frontend
  - [LibreTube](https://github.com/libre-tube/LibreTube/releases/latest) - An alternative frontend for YouTube, for Android.
  - [Clipious](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.github.lamarios.clipious/) - Invidious client for android
  - [ViMusic](https://f-droid.org/packages/it.vfsfitvnm.vimusic/) - Seamlessly stream music from YouTube Music
  - [InnerTune](https://github.com/z-huang/InnerTune/releases/latest) - A Material 3 YouTube Music client for Android
  - [Spotube](https://github.com/KRTirtho/spotube/releases/latest) - 🎧 Open source Spotify client that doesn't require Premium nor uses Electron! Available for both desktop & mobile!
  - [Transistor](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.y20k.transistor/) - Transistor is an app for listening to radio stations over the internet.
  - [AntennaPod](https://f-droid.org/packages/de.danoeh.antennapod/) - Easy-to-use, flexible and open-source podcast manager and player
  - [Podverse](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.podverse.fdroid/) - Podcast app with clips, video, livestreams, playlists, profiles, and cross-platform
- Social Media
  - [Squawker](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/org.ca.squawker/) - An open-source Twitter/X client
  - [Infinity for Reddit](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/ml.docilealligator.infinityforreddit/) - A beautiful, feature-rich Reddit client.
  - [Mastodon](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.joinmastodon.android/) - Decentralized social network
  - [Shitter](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/org.nuclearfog.twidda/) - A lightweight Mastodon client focused on privacy and low data consumption
  - [Tusky](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.keylesspalace.tusky/) - A multi account client for the social network Mastodon
  - [Fedilab](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/fr.gouv.etalab.mastodon/) - A multifunctional Android client to access the distributed Fediverse
  - [PixelDroid](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/org.pixeldroid.app/) - Client for Pixelfed, the federated image sharing platform
- Offline Media
  - [VLC Media Player](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.videolan.vlc/) - The best video and music player. Fast and “just works”, plays any file
  - [Video Transcoder](https://f-droid.org/packages/protect.videoeditor/) - Video transcoding between common formats
  - [Standard Notes](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.standardnotes/) - An end-to-end encrypted note-taking app for digitalists and professionals
  - [SimpleTextEditor](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.maxistar.textpad/) - Simple Text Editor
- Messenger (Private, Secure, etc)
  - [Briar](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.briarproject.briar.android/) - Secure Messaging, Anywhere
  - [Jami](https://f-droid.org/packages/cx.ring/) - Audio & Video Calls / Chat Take Control of your Communication!
  - [SimpleX](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/chat.simplex.app/) - The first messaging network operating without user identifiers of any kind - 100% private by design!
- Email Service
  - [Proton Mail](https://github.com/ProtonMail/android-mail/releases/latest)
  - [Tuta](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/de.tutao.tutanota/)
- VPNs
  - [Mullvad VPN](https://f-droid.org/packages/net.mullvad.mullvadvpn/) - Protect your online privacy with a fast, trustworthy, and easy-to-use VPN.
  - [IVPN](https://f-droid.org/packages/net.ivpn.client/) - Privacy focused VPN service with WireGuard
  - [Calyx VPN](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.calyxinstitute.vpn/) - Free VPN Service offered by The Calyx Institute
  - [Proton VPN](https://f-droid.org/packages/ch.protonvpn.android/) - Free Swiss VPN with advanced security and privacy features.
- App Control & Container/Isolator
  - [NetGuard](https://f-droid.org/packages/eu.faircode.netguard/) - A simple way to block access to the internet per application
  - [Insular](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.oasisfeng.island.fdroid/) - Isolate your Big Brother apps
- Misc. Apps
  - [PCAPdroid](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.emanuelef.remote_capture/) - No-root network monitor and traffic dump tool for Android devices
  - [Seal](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/com.junkfood.seal/) - 🦭 Video/audio downloader for Android (YT-DLP), designed with Material You 
  - [PrivacyBlur](https://f-droid.org/packages/de.mathema.privacyblur/) - Blur or pixelate faces or sensitive areas in pictures
  - [KeePassDX](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.kunzisoft.keepass.libre/) - Secure and open source password manager compatible with KeePass files.
    - [Key Driver](https://gitlab.com/kunzisoft/android-hardware-key-driver/-/releases) - Unlock KeePassXC databases with [YubiKeys](https://keepassxc.org/docs/#faq-yubikey-2fa)
  - [Lemuroid](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.swordfish.lemuroid/) - All in one emulator on Android
  - [Lawnchair](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/ch.deletescape.lawnchair.plah/) - Pixel Launcher features plus customizability
  - [Public IP](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/net.guildem.publicip/) - App and Widget allowing user to find its current public IP address
  - [Catima](https://f-droid.org/packages/me.hackerchick.catima/) - Catima, a Loyalty Card & Ticket Manager for Android
  - [Feeder](https://github.com/spacecowboy/Feeder) - Android RSS reader app

### Aurora Store Apps
- Magic Earth
  - [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.generalmagic.magicearth)
  - Direct Download: [https://www.magicearth.com/apk/](https://www.magicearth.com/apk/) - Password: `7h6Q7\9AsF:a7"Ja`
- Tor Browser
  - [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.torproject.torbrowser)

</details>




## Personal Layout Design

<details>
<summary>Click to expand...</summary>

## Personal Current Phone Layout
![image](https://github.com/Scrut1ny/GrapheneOS-Guide/assets/53458032/48b8fe77-1c37-4e1c-afb9-6be1c2d23787)

- If you would like your system to look like mine, please check out these apps:
  - [unlauncher](https://github.com/jkuester/unlauncher/releases/latest) - Android minimalistic launcher
    - [F-Droid Link](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.jkuester.unlauncher/)
  - [KISS](https://github.com/Neamar/KISS/releases/latest) - Lightning fast, open-source, < 250kb Android launcher
  - My KISS Config
  ```
  {"__v":183,"freeze-history":true,"history-hide":true,"first-run-favorites":false,"selected-search-provider-names":["DuckDuckGo"],"require-layout-update":false,"gesture-up":"display-apps","favorite-apps-list":"app:\/\/us.spotco.fennec_dos\/us.spotco.fennec_dos.App;app:\/\/com.zionhuang.music\/com.zionhuang.music.MainActivity;app:\/\/org.thoughtcrime.securesms\/org.thoughtcrime.securesms.RoutingActivity;app:\/\/com.android.dialer\/com.android.dialer.main.impl.MainActivity;app:\/\/com.android.settings\/com.android.settings.Settings;","enable-app-history":false,"available-search-providers":["DuckDuckGo|https:\/\/start.duckduckgo.com\/?q=%s"],"enable-search":false,"large-search-bar":true,"transparent-search":true,"subicon-visible":false,"pref-toggle-tags-list":["call","clock","message","people","messaging"],"excluded-apps":["fr.neamar.kiss\/fr.neamar.kiss.MainActivity"],"default-search-provider":"DuckDuckGo","theme":"transparent-dark","pref-hide-circle":true,"first-run-shortcuts":false,"exclude-favorites-history":false,"deleting-search-providers-names":["Google","Google Maps","Google Play Store","YouTube","Ecosia","Bing"],"force-adaptive":false,"icons-pack":"com.donnnno.arcticons","pref-hide-search-bar-hint":true,"__tags":{"app:\/\/com.android.dialer\/com.android.dialer.main.impl.MainActivity":"dial call phone","app:\/\/com.android.contacts\/com.android.contacts.activities.PeopleActivity":"contacts people relations","app:\/\/org.chromium.chrome\/com.google.android.apps.chrome.Main":"internet web browser","app:\/\/com.android.deskclock\/com.android.deskclock.DeskClock":"clock alarm timer stopwatch","app:\/\/us.spotco.fennec_dos\/org.mozilla.fenix.IntentReceiverActivity":"internet web browser","app:\/\/com.android.deskclock\/com.android.deskclock.HandleApiCalls":"clock alarm timer stopwatch","app:\/\/com.android.messaging\/com.android.messaging.ui.conversationlist.ConversationListActivity":"text message compose sms mms messaging"}}
  ```

- Arcticons
  - [Arcticons Dark](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.donnnno.arcticons/) - A monotone line-based icon pack
  - [Arcticons Light](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.donnnno.arcticons.light/) - A monotone line-based icon pack
  - [Arcticons You](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.donnnno.arcticons.you/) - A Material You line-based icon pack

</details>




## Other Awesome Guides
- [https://alternativeto.net/list/35462/grapheneos-appverse/](https://alternativeto.net/list/35462/grapheneos-appverse/)
- [https://www.devilreef.net/securing-a-personal-android-phone/](https://www.devilreef.net/securing-a-personal-android-phone/)
- [https://redandblack.io/blog/2020/how-to-set-up-grapheneos/](https://redandblack.io/blog/2020/how-to-set-up-grapheneos/)
- [https://craignuzzo.tech/articles/graphene](https://craignuzzo.tech/articles/graphene)
